Update and remove outdated files (#474)
HL7Austria/CDA2FHIR: README.md

# CDA2FHIR

> Transformation of ELGA CDA documents (Laboratory Report, e-Vac) to FHIR R4, written in the FHIR Mapping Language (FML).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transformation of ELGA CDA documents (laboratory report, e-vac) to FHIR R4, written in the FHIR Mapping Language (FML).
```

Author: already added.

> The FML maps in `maps/` describe the rules for transforming CDA to FHIR. [MaLaC-HD](https://gitlab.com/cdehealth/malac-hd) compiles them into a standalone Python module, `python-maps/CdaToFhirBundle.4.py`, which converts a CDA XML document into a FHIR `Bundle`. That Python file is generated and committed by CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FML maps in `maps/` describe the rules for transforming CDA to FHIR. [MaLaC-HD](https://gitlab.com/cdehealth/malac-hd) compiles them into a standalone Python module, `python-maps/CdaToFhirBundle.4.py`, which converts a CDA XML document into a FHIR document `Bundle`. That Python file is generated and committed by CI.
```

## Repository layout

| Path | Content |
| --- | --- |

> | `maps/` | The mapping. `CdaToFhirBundle.4.map` is the entry map and dispatches on `ClinicalDocument.code` to `CdaLabToFhirBundle.4.map` or `CdaEimpfToFhirBundle.4.map`; `CdaToFhirTypes.4.map` holds the shared CDA→FHIR datatype transforms. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maps/` | The mapping. `CdaToFhirBundle.4.map` is the entry map and dispatches on `ClinicalDocument/code` to `CdaLabToFhirBundle.4.map` or `CdaEimpfToFhirBundle.4.map`; `CdaToFhirTypes.4.map` holds the shared CDA→FHIR datatype transforms. |
```

> | `input/` | CDA samples per document type, the IG each type is validated against (`config.json`) and the validator suppressions (`advisor.json`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `input/` | CDA samples per document type, the FHIR IG each resulting FHIR document `Bundle` is validated against (`config.json`) and the validator suppressions (`advisor.json`). |
```

> | `python-maps/` | The compiled mapping (generated), the pinned MaLaC-HD version (`requirements.txt`) and the release version (`pyproject.toml`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `python-maps/` | The compiled mapping (generated based on the respective `*-main`-branch), the pinned MaLaC-HD version (`requirements.txt`) and the release version (`pyproject.toml`). |
```

| `scripts/` | CI helpers: convert & validate, coverage, ELGA release. |

## Branches

| Branch | Target |
| --- | --- |

> | `elga-main`, `elga-dev` | national ELGA / HL7 Austria |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `elga-main`, `elga-dev` | [national ELGA / HL7 Austria](https://github.com/HL7Austria/CDA2FHIR/tree/elga-main) |
```

> | `myhealtheu-main`, `myhealtheu-dev` | cross-border MyHealth@EU / eHDSI |

Reviewer: Mark it somehow. Showing the reader that he's currently looking at the MyHealth@EU stuff.

> | `myhealtheu-main`, `myhealtheu-dev` | cross-border MyHealth@EU / eHDSI |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `myhealtheu-main`, `myhealtheu-dev` | cross-border MyHealth@EU / eHDSI |
| `hl7eu-dev` | [HL7EU](https://github.com/HL7Austria/CDA2FHIR/tree/hl7eu-dev) |
```

Branch off the matching `-dev` branch, edit the FML, and open the pull request against it.

## Running the mapping locally

```bash
pip install -r python-maps/requirements.txt

# 1. compile the FML to Python
malac-hd -m maps/CdaToFhirBundle.4.map -co python-maps/CdaToFhirBundle.4.py

# 2. transform a CDA sample — the target extension selects the serialization
python python-maps/CdaToFhirBundle.4.py -s input/lab/ELGA-043-Laborbefund_EIS-FullSupport.xml -t out.fhir.json
```
## Specifications

The mappings are defined against the following Austrian ELGA and HL7 specifications.

**Source (CDA)**

> - [ELGA Labor- & Mikrobiologiebefund v2 & v3](https://wiki.hl7.at/index.php/ILF:Labor-_und_Mikrobiologiebefund_Guide) - IG for the Laboratory and Microbiology Report

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ELGA Labor- & Mikrobiologiebefund v2 & v3](https://wiki.hl7.at/index.php/ILF:Labor-_und_Mikrobiologiebefund_Guide) - IG for the laboratory and microbiology report
```

    - [v2 templates in ART-DECOR](https://art-decor.org/ad/#/elga-/rules/templates/1.2.40.0.34.11.4/2023-05-08T13:51:02)

>     - [v3 templates in ART-DECOR](https://art-decor.org/ad/#/at-lab-/rules/templates/1.2.40.0.34.6.0.11.0.11/2020-08-25T14:35:13)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [v2 templates in ART-DECOR](https://art-decor.org/ad/#/elga-/rules/templates/1.2.40.0.34.11.4)
    - [v3 templates in ART-DECOR](https://art-decor.org/ad/#/at-lab-/rules/templates/1.2.40.0.34.6.0.11.0.11)
```

> - [e-Impfpass](https://wiki.hl7.at/index.php/ILF:E-Impfpass_Guide) - IG for the electronic immunization record (e-Vac)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [e-Impfpass](https://wiki.hl7.at/index.php/ILF:E-Impfpass_Guide) - IG for the electronic immunization record (e-vac)
```

>     - [templates in ART-DECOR](https://art-decor.org/ad/#/elgaimpf-/rules/templates/1.2.40.0.34.6.0.11.0.4/2026-02-04T15:09:45)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [templates in ART-DECOR](https://art-decor.org/ad/#/elgaimpf-/rules/templates/1.2.40.0.34.6.0.11.0.4)
```

**Target (FHIR)**

> - [Austrian Patient Summary](https://fhir.ehdsi.eu/laboratory/index.html) - The MyHealth@EU Laboratory Result Report which the generated Bundles conform to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MyHealth@EU Laboratory Report](https://fhir.ehdsi.eu/laboratory/index.html) - The MyHealth@EU Laboratory Result Report which the generated Bundles conform to 
```

## CI

| Workflow | Trigger | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `convert-and-validate.yml` | pull request | compiles the maps, converts every sample in `input/`, validates each output with the HL7 FHIR validator, uploads output/validation/coverage, and fails the check on validation errors |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `convert-and-validate.yml` | pull request | compiles the maps, converts every sample in `input/`, validates each output with the HL7 FHIR validator, provides output/validation/coverage as artifacts, and fails if there are validation errors |
```

| `fml2python.yml` | push to the stable branch | recompiles the maps and commits `python-maps/CdaToFhirBundle.4.py` |
| `release.yml` | manual (`workflow_dispatch`) | takes the version from `python-maps/pyproject.toml` as the tag, creates the GitHub release with generated notes, and opens a merge request in the ELGA GitLab (MalacService) with the compiled Python, `pyproject.toml` and `requirements.txt` |

> Releasing: bump the version in `python-maps/pyproject.toml`, then run `release.yml` on the stable branch with the ELGA Jira ticket number (and optionally the previous release tag, which sets where the generated notes start).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Releasing: bump the version in `python-maps/pyproject.toml`, then run `release.yml` on the `myhealtheu-main` branch with the ELGA Jira ticket number (and optionally the previous release tag, which sets where the generated notes start).

You can invoke the following request in order to start the pipeline:

curl -X POST \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <Personal Access Token>" \
  -H "Accept: application/vnd.github+json" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  https://api.github.com/repos/HL7Austria/CDA2FHIR/actions/workflows/release.yml/dispatches \
  -d '{
    "ref": "262-propagate-release-to-elga-gitlab",
    "inputs": {
      "elga_jira_ticket_nr": "ELGA-123",
      "previous_release_tag": "9.1.0-1.0.1-myhealtheu"
    }
  }'

```
